(electronic keyboard sound)
(typing sound)
In this video, we're gonna go ahead and download
and instal the JDK, which is the Java Development Kit
which contains the software
to be able to run programmes in this course.
Now if you're running on a Mac or Linux machine,
you'll wanna check out a specific video
that we've created in this section of the course
for those operating systems.
The reason is the steps are slightly different
for each platform.
So this is the Windows video.
So if you are on Windows, you'll wanna start
by going to java.oracle.com.
That'll bring you to a page from Oracle,
which are now the owners of the Java product.
And we come over here to under Technologies,
click on Java SE
and once that page loads
come over here and click on Downloads.
And finally, once we get to that page,
there's this little icon here, this little image
and it'll say Java Platform JDK and a number here.
Now it's highly likely that this number will change
in the future because Oracle release,
at regular intervals, updates to the Java Development Kit,
so if you've got a later number than that, that's fine.
Just click on the graphic there
and that'll take you to the Download page
where we can actually download the software.
Now what we need to do, is determine whether your computer
is a 32 or is running a 32 or 64-bit version of Windows.
The reason for that is that there's two versions
of the JDK available
and you can see here Windows x86, Windows x64.
So what that means is Windows x86
is for computers running 32-bit version of Windows
and Windows x64 is for 64-bit version of Windows.
So to find out which version you're running
on your computer, you basically wanna get
into Control Panel, or from Windows 10 it's Settings.
So I wanna come down here, I've clicked on the Start icon,
click on Settings.
Once you get into Control Panel,
or in my case Windows Settings, click on System
and then there's an option down here for About.
That's certainly what it is for Windows 10,
it might be slightly different for older version of Windows.
But there's an option on all versions of Windows
to tell you what version of Windows you're running.
And here under System Type,
you can see that it's a 64-bit operating system.
So ignore this part to the right
where it says x64-based processor,
because it is possible confusingly,
to have a 64-bit processor but to be running
a 32-bit version of the Windows operating system.
So, the important bit here is to the left
where it says 64-bit operating system,
that tells me there that I'm running a 64-bit version
of the operating system and I can now choose my download.
The only other option that would come up
would be a 32-bit version and once you know that
you can close that screen down,
you come back to the page that we loaded previously
and choose the relevant version.
Now before they allow you to download,
you need to click on Accept Licence Agreement,
this little radio button that you saw we clicked,
and now we need to choose the version.
So a 32-bit version, that would be the Windows x86 version.
In my case, 64 means 64-bit version,
or 64-bit edition of Windows, so I'm gonna click
on that little option there for me.
So you'll choose whichever one is appropriate.
And I'm gonna click on Run to let Windows run this
so that we can go ahead and instal it.
So I'll just fast forward this while it continues
so it completes the download.
Okay, so I've gone ahead and the download's finished
and it's started because I've selected it to Run.
Now if you didn't select Run,
you might have to double-click
the downloaded programme to start it,
in any event, it should start.
I'm gonna close down the browser
because we no longer need it
and you'll get a process like this,
an installation process that we can actually go through.
So I come through here now and I can click on Next.
Now you may actually need to know this later in the course
so just keep to the back of your mind
or perhaps write down the area
or the path that this software's been installed in.
You can see in my case it's going to be installed
in C:\Program Files\Java, then this number will relate
to the version that you've downloaded.
The important part is Programme Files\Java,
so you may or may not need that later in the course
but have like a mental note of that
or write it down so you know.
Click on Next, we don't need to change any options there,
we'll let it do it's thing and instal.
Next thing it does is instal the JDK
but it also wants to instal the JRE.
The JRE stands for Java Runtime Edition
and you do need to have both things on your computer
in order to be able to use Java.
So we're going to just click on Next,
noting that that directory, the C:\Program Files\Java.
So it's actually putting it in a different sub folder
and, again, you my need that later in the course.
Click on Next and let it do it's thing again.
Alright, so at this point you can see that it's come up
and said the Java SE Development Kit 8 Update
and then the number has been successfully installed,
so we're actually done.
So we'll click on Close.
I'm gonna finish the video here,
let's move on to the next one.